[AUDIO LOGO]
[CHEERING]
>> Biohacking, it's not
just about being well,
it's about being more than well.
It's the power to
transform yourself.
Are you ready?
I'm Dave Asprey, and
this is "Biohacking."
I'm Dave Asprey.
When I started the Biohacking
movement, a big part of it
was supplements,
because supplements
can give you direct control
over your own biology.
They can make you feel normal,
and they can give you abilities
that you wouldn't otherwise have
without specific supplements.
In this episode, I'm
going to teach you
about supplements that can
increase your lifespan,
as well as baseline supplements
that we all need to improve
your metabolic processes.
So there's kind
of two categories.
One is I want everything to work
the way it's supposed to work,
and then there's
another one which
is I want things to work better
than they're supposed to work.
So I'll do my best
to tell you, look,
this is what everyone needs just
to function in the world today.
And if you want this
superpower, try this supplement.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
We still have this
idea that we're
supposed to get our
nutrients only from our diet,
even though the
stresses in our lives
and the toxins in our lives are
not coming from mother nature.
So if you have that
belief, it's time
to set it aside because
it doesn't make any sense.
Why would you only get
nutrients from food?
You don't even know what
nutrients are in your food.
Your modern lifestyle--
you're indoors,
so you don't get sunlight.
You're surrounded
by synthetic toxins.
And there's two
categories of nutrients
that are baseline for
everyone and most of us
don't have enough, and
they play with each other.
One of them is called broad
spectrum minerals or what I
call minerals 101
and vitamin D.A.K.E.
That's vitamin D-A-K-E.
And just about everyone
needs to be taking these.
The reason is that the fat
soluble vitamins in vitamin
D.A.K.E, they drive
minerals into your cells,
into your bones so that the
minerals know where to go.
For your exercise to work,
for your meditation to work,
for you to get a
response for your efforts
to improve yourself, you
have to have vitamin D.A.K.E
and minerals so the
raw materials are there
for self-transformation.
Doesn't matter what age you
are, you just need these,
and they're not in
our food anymore.
Some people will say, why don't
I just take a one pill a day
multivitamin?
It says, I only need one a day.
Well, there's a problem there.
Those supplements are
almost always low quality.
They don't provide good forms
of vitamins and minerals.
The ratios are off, and
it is impossible to fit
the right amount of
the basic minerals,
much less all the other
vitamins in a single pill.
So someone selling you a bill
of goods and a single one
pill a day multivitamin just
isn't going to do much for you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Minerals are the least
sexy of all the supplements
you could take.
I want to talk to you
about the supplements
that increase libido
and make you live longer
and improve your vision or make
you sleep better, but honestly,
don't waste your money
on those if you're not
taking a broad spectrum
multi-mineral formula
and your vitamin
D.A.K.E. And your body
will allocate minerals
throughout your tissues
to build components of your
cells, especially enzymes.
For your body to
be alive, you have
to make enzymes that allow
biochemical processes to happen
without a lot of heat.
So all biochemistry
depends on the enzymes,
and they depend
on trace minerals.
One of the things
that's happening now
is, well, we've been tilling our
soil for more than 100 years--
that's plowing.
We've used industrial
fertilizers for a long time,
and now we've put
glyphosate on the soil.
And all of these
things, in combination,
mean that the soil
has lost its minerals.
So you might say, well,
I'm eating some spinach.
Spinach has iron.
I know I saw it on that old
cartoon called "Popeye."
Well, the reality is that
your spinach may or may not
have iron depending on
what was in the soil.
And even if the spinach
has iron, it's only 1.7%
absorbable because
leafy greens are
terrible source of minerals
because the minerals are
all bound up.
So what's going on there?
Does that mean that
every plant you eat,
you don't know how many
minerals are in it?
Yeah.
But you can bet that
it's less than you think
because our soil
has been mistreated
and plants have been mistreated.
Another thing has
happened in the world--
we've seen big food
companies trying
to market subsistence
level survival
foods like oats and grains and
whole grains and whole seeds
as superfoods.
They are not.
And they contain high levels of
something called phytic acid.
When you eat these foods that
are marketed as health foods--
even things like corn flakes
and puffed rice are very high
in phytic acid--
they suck minerals out of
your bones and your cells.
This is how plants
protect themselves.
So our diet is higher in phytic
acid than it was 100 years ago.
Our plants and even our
animals are lower in minerals
than they were 100 years ago.
It's no wonder there's an
epidemic of low minerals.
So they're the least
interesting of the supplements,
but they're the
most broad spectrum
foundational supportive things.
So vitamin D.A.K.E and
broad spectrum minerals.
That is foundational.
Start there before
you do anything else.
And if you're curious
about what I just
said about plants--
what do you mean,
plants might not
be good for you?
Plants can be good and not
good for you at the same time.
I was-- in my journey of
developing a diet where people
have lost millions of pounds
and losing 100 pounds myself,
I was a devout raw vegan.
So I sprouted, I
blended, I soaked--
all the stuff you do--
giant salad bowls.
And I had a very
balanced vegan diet.
And I started getting
cold all the time.
I developed autoimmune issues.
I got joint pain that
took years to get rid of,
and I cracked teeth.
They got temperature
sensitive and then
they just started breaking
because my vegan diet was
sucking minerals
out of my bones,
out of my teeth
and my joint pain.
All of that was
fixed with minerals
and saturated fats that
you can't get from plants.
As things stand today,
about a year ago, I
had to have a yoga injury
surgically repaired
and it required cutting
through the bone in my foot.
Because I'm a
biohacker, I was awake
and I talked to the
surgeon during the surgery
even I couldn't feel it.
And I heard the bone saw start.
It goes bzzz.
And then it gets to the
bone and it goes vrooo
and it almost stopped.
And the doctor
looked at the nurse
and he said, what is going on?
I'm having a hard time
getting through the bone.
Is this guy even human?
And after the surgery, he
said, Dave, before you,
I operated on
someone half your age
and the saw cut through
their bones like butter.
What are you possibly doing?
Bone density is a sign
of metabolic health
and bone density is a sign
of getting enough minerals
into your body.
I practice what I preach, so
I've been taking minerals 101,
like the broad spectrum
mineral type of supplements.
And I've been taking
vitamin D.A.K.E for years,
as well as the other things
you learn in these episodes,
including the types
of exercise and all.
So you can have bones
that are really strong.
It turns out that weak bones
because you don't have minerals
are a major source of
death for people over 50.
You fall down, you break a
hip, and you die within a year.
Let's make it so that
you don't fall down,
and if you do fall
down, you have
bones that don't break because
you have enough minerals.
You also have more energy
and a better working brain
and better sleep and better
sex, and all that kind of stuff.
That's why I'm so into vitamin
D.A.K.E and the big minerals.
But it's more than
just big minerals,
there's three kinds of minerals
you want to pay attention to.
There's the big ones
that we've all heard of,
then there's trace minerals,
which you need small amounts.
And then there's
ultratrace minerals
that are present in
the Earth's crust
that your body uses
teeny tiny amounts of.
You're probably
missing all of those.
When I talk about a broad
spectrum mineral thing,
I just mean the big minerals.
These are, calcium,
magnesium, sodium, potassium,
and phosphorus.
Calcium-- you need about
1,000 milligrams per day,
and you're probably
getting enough
if you eat any dairy products
or if you eat bone broth.
If you are a vegan or after you
watch this series of episodes,
a former vegan like
me, you may decide
that you include some dairy
or some meat products,
you'll probably
get enough calcium.
But there's a form
of calcium called
calcium fructoborate
that radically
promotes bone density.
It's a super power calcium.
That's one of the big
reasons my bones are dense.
That plus broad
spectrum minerals.
There's also something called
calcium D-glucarate, which
is another form of
calcium that gives you
extra liver detoxing abilities.
So those two calciums
are preferred ways
to get calcium because they
give you extra powers with it.
But most of us,
even though we have
enough calcium from
the foods that we eat,
don't get enough magnesium.
Magnesium is a cofactor
in more than in 300
enzymatic processes.
When you have enough magnesium
that your body can use,
it helps to control
glucose, blood pressure,
even helps with
sleep and stress.
But there are about a
dozen forms of calcium,
and they don't all
work very well.
Any form of calcium that
ends in "ate," an A-T-E
is going to be a form you
want, like citrate or glycenate
or the form that I like the best
is called magnesium threonate.
And that can cross the
blood brain barrier,
and you want somewhere between
500 and 1,000 milligrams
per day.
And you may need
to split the doses
because your body
naturally wants
the most magnesium at noon.
So if you take some in the
morning and some at night,
that works best.
You can go higher
than 1,000 milligrams.
If you take too much magnesium,
you can expect disaster pants.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Then there's sodium.
And people say,
what do you mean?
I thought sodium was bad.
No.
Minerals are not good or bad.
They're just useful, and you
can have too much or too little.
And we have an epidemic of too
little sodium in people today.
You may hear that and say,
but I just saw an ad on TV
from a big food company telling
me that they had a low sodium
product.
Yeah, big companies are
oftentimes stuck in the 1970s.
We know now that the more
stress you are under,
the more your body needs sodium.
But we're almost all
potassium deficient.
So if you take more sodium--
I take about 8 grams a day,
almost four times the RDA,
which absolutely
improves my life.
If you're on a low carb
diet or you exercise a lot
or you sweat a lot,
you need more sodium.
But I also take
potassium because you
want to have a balance
between the two.
Most people who think that
salt causes high blood pressure
are just deficient in
potassium and magnesium.
To add sodium to your diet,
especially in the morning,
use high quality desert salt
or microplastic-free sea salt.
And you can put it in water, you
can sprinkle it on your food.
If your taste buds want
more salt, there's a reason,
and you should give it to them.
You also might want to
consider increasing potassium,
another one of
the macrominerals.
It works well with sodium to
keep body fluids in balance
and even to make nerve impulses.
A good target is about 5,000
milligrams per day from food
and supplements like potassium
citrate, potassium aspartate,
or potassium bicarbonate.
And this is important-- do
not take all your potassium
at the same time.
You spread it out and
always take it with meals.
Because if you take a lot
of potassium without sodium,
it can cause fluctuations
in your heart rate.
That's why most potassium
pills are very, very small,
like, 100 milligrams small.
So you would need
many of those pills.
Most people take
potassium in a powder form
in order to get enough.
Just don't take it all at
once, take it with food.
After those big minerals,
we get into trace minerals,
and these are things
that are almost
universally deficient, but
not always in the same way
in every person.
Things like copper, which is
toxic if you have too much.
And if you don't have
enough, you'll have anemia.
Things like zinc, iodine,
which controls your thyroid.
Iron, which is toxic
in higher doses.
Manganese, which is toxic in
higher doses, but so necessary.
Things like
molybdenum, selenium.
These trace minerals can provide
profound benefits for you.
And since you're
almost certainly
in balance on some of
these, taking more of them
in a balanced formula
is a really good idea.
That's why I like this idea
of broad spectrum of minerals
101 formulas that have
all the minerals that you
would want in them.
As an example,
copper protects you
against allergies and
histamine intolerance.
Copper controls sex drive, brain
function, hair, bone health,
but you only need 1 to
3 milligrams per day.
A lot of people,
during the pandemic,
started supplementing with
insane amounts of zinc.
If you take too much
zinc, it can actually
suppress your copper levels.
So if your hair turned
gray during the pandemic,
stress might have played
a role, but it could
have been problems with zinc.
Speaking of zinc, what
does zinc do for you?
Well, it controls your blood
sugar, your blood pressure,
immunity, and some hormones,
especially the sex hormones.
Most people these days
are getting too much
because of supplements.
But if you don't supplement
with anything that has zinc,
you could be deficient.
The two forms of zinc
that are most interesting
are zinc orotate
and zinc carnosine.
You might also
consider zinc niacin.
Take about two to three
times as much zinc
as copper up to about
15 milligrams per day
and take your zinc and copper
far apart from each other.
If you can, if they're
all in a single formula,
it's still good to take it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Iodine is absolutely necessary
for thyroid function and many
of us are low in iodine,
especially if you're
using the higher quality sea
salts that don't include iodine
like industrial salt.
The recommended allowance
from the government
is 150 micrograms,
but the government
allowances are the minimum
necessary to prevent
you from getting
a disease of insufficiency.
But it doesn't mean that
it's the level that gives you
full power as a human being.
In fact, I'm not even sure
they want you to have that.
But I want you to have that.
I like to take about
500 micrograms up
to 1 milligram per day
from kelp powder or just
straight potassium iodide.
And if you have kids who
don't like taking supplements,
you can actually paint
a little smiley face
on their arm in iodine.
It'll absorb right in.
Iron is absolutely
essential to make energy.
But if you have
too much iron, it
creates reactive oxygen species.
And a lot of iron in your
blood can increase cancer risk.
So if you have anemia,
you might say, well,
that means I'm low in iron.
Maybe not because your
body can't absorb iron
without having copper.
So some people who
have anemia need
to take copper and iron so
that it starts working again.
You have more risk of having
too much iron versus not enough,
unless you know you have anemia.
And then there's manganese.
This helps to maintain
blood glucose.
It keeps your blood
vessels working.
You need about 2
milligrams per day.
You probably aren't
getting enough from food,
unless you eat a ton of plants
that have it bioavailable,
which is really hard to do.
That's why I recommend
supplementing it.
Molybdenum is a really
important mineral
that should be in
your minerals 101
kind of everything-in-it
formula,
and there are a
variety of companies
that make broad spectrum
mineral formulas.
A deficiency in moly
can change your mood,
reduce your stress resilience
and interfere with your sleep.
This is the mineral
that recycles
glutathione, which is one of
your biggest detox molecules.
You only need 50
micrograms per day,
and it should be in
your supplements,
but it probably isn't.
There's also selenium.
It increases stress resilience.
It helps your body not
have mercury poisoning.
Your thyroid needs it.
But too much of it is toxic.
And this is one where
you might get a blood
test for your levels,
but you generally
want to take 50 to 200
micrograms of selenium
every other day,
or make sure you
eat a lot of meat,
eggs, and wild seafood,
you'll probably get enough.
And to get your
ultratrace minerals,
that's where you want
humic and fulvic complexes
from ancient deposits of plants.
And I highly recommend
finding those already put
into your coffee.
Now, you probably didn't
know that minerals
were that important in
your body, but you do now.
And you're going to get a
broad spectrum mineral formula,
but then you've got to have
vitamin D.A.K.E with it.
Vitamin D.A.K.E is a
specific combination
of vitamin D3, real vitamin
A-- not plant-based vitamin
A-- specific types of vitamin K
and a specific form of vitamin
E. That combination will
drive all those minerals
into the right
places in your body.
So those are your two
foundational non-negotiable
supplements before you get
into all the cool stuff, which
is where we're going next.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
At this point, you're
taking your minerals 101.
You're taking your
vitamin D.A.K.E,
but what about living to
180 because I did talk
about that earlier, right?
Well, here's the deal.
Today, we can live to 120.
So I think we might be able to
do 50% better than our current
best over the next 100
years because science
is moving that way.
I know I interview
all the scientists,
like, this is really
happening in your lifetime.
One of the things
that makes you live
longest is to have mitochondria
that work really, really well.
Most supplements that enhance
mitochondria also slow aging.
So I'm going to tell
you the big guns.
These are not all
cheap, but all of these
are shown to be very effective
and giving you more energy now
and giving you more years
of life later, that's
why I take these.
One of the more
interesting new supplements
is called urolithin A. This is
a bacterial byproduct called
a postbiotic.
And if you were to eat a
pound or two of pomegranate,
and you had the
right gut bacteria,
you would make
urolithin A in a way
that would give you way more
mitochondrial energy and better
gut.
Problem is most of us don't
eat that much, and if we did,
we'd have a lot of sugar anyway.
And when you get urolithin
A as a supplement,
it induces mitophagy.
In other words,
it makes your body
get rid of weak mitochondria.
It slows aging, and it
significantly, in studies,
increases muscle output.
Oh, and in fruit flies, which
is the model we use for aging,
it only extends lifespan by 50%.
What do you do?
500 milligrams of
urolithin A every day.
It's about six times better
at triggering mitophagy
than drinking 8 ounces
of pomegranate juice.
So what that means is
you'd have to drink
48 ounces of pomegranate
juice and have the right gut
bacteria to take one
little capsules worth.
Then there's calcium AKG.
In mice, which are
remarkably similar to humans,
it extends lifespan by 12%.
And in humans, it improves
mitochondrial health.
It also is a form of calcium.
I take it every day.
It's got great evidence
for anti-aging.
Then there's spermidine.
I first wrote about spermidine
when you couldn't buy it
as a supplement, and you had
to take a probiotic to make it,
and it wasn't one you
could even get in the US.
But the studies are so
strong that spermidine
is good for you.
Today, you can get spermidine
in supplement form, in a pill
or in a little sachet of powder.
There's also some
present in chlorella.
And what it does is
it triggers autophagy.
Normally, you have
to fast in order
for your body to get rid of
zombie cells and old cells
and to renew and
regenerate itself.
Spermidine makes
your body think it's
fasting, even if
you're eating, so you
get the benefits of autophagy.
I take spermidine
every single day
because in studies, it can turn
on mitochondrial biogenesis.
So one effect is
get rid of old ones,
the other one is grow new ones.
It even reverses cardiac aging.
You want a young
heart if you're going
to live to 100-plus years.
A 20-year long study
found that eating
more spermidine-rich
foods, correlated
with just a five-year
increase in life expectancy,
and it reduces markers of
aging in other animals.
Another powerful supplement
for energy and anti-aging
is oxaloacetate.
This is an intermediate
in your Krebs cycle,
and you might not remember that
from seventh grade biology.
I barely do either.
I just wrote a book about it.
So in your cells, either
fat or carbs come in
and then there's a little
cycle, like a little motor,
you could think of it, that
turns and it makes ATP.
Well, it turns out one of
those intermediate steps,
the last step before you can
take in new sugar in your cells
is oxaloacetate.
When you take it
as a supplement,
it makes it easy for your
cells to make ATP very quickly.
You suck on a lozenge, you feel
it within a couple of minutes.
It activates brain
mitochondrial biogenesis.
In other words, more
power in your brain and it
activates something
called A.M.P.K,
which helps with aging.
It also scavenges
glutamate, which
can be neurotoxic in
the brain, especially
if you ate a lot of MSG.
There's another
anti-aging supplement
that you might have heard about
if you listened to the detoxing
episode.
It's called activated charcoal.
You can take it during a
fast or before a sauna,
and it has a huge surface area.
1 teaspoon has the surface
area about the size of a soccer
field.
It has a very strong
negative electrical charge.
So it'll draw toxins
out of your body,
which is why it's anti-aging.
Studies show that activated
charcoal extends lifespan
even if you aren't fasting.
So this is something--
you take it away
from drugs and supplements,
but it's meaningful.
Another thing you could look
at that is commonly available
is called quercetin,
which promotes
destruction of senescent or
zombie cells in your body.
These are cells
that aren't dead,
but they aren't doing
their job either,
so you want to get
rid of those, so you
can have a better functioning
brain and live a lot longer.
Then there's luteolin.
It supports
autophagy, mitophagy,
and supports cellular
functions that cause your body
to just get rid of cells
that are overstressed
and replace them with
young unstressed cells.
Those are some major
anti-aging compounds.
And then we get into some of the
more esoteric or unknown ones.
Then there's fisetin.
This is a very, very
powerful supplement
that supports autophagy
and causes your body
to have fewer of
those zombie cells.
And it doesn't absorb
that well, so you may need
to take a higher dose of it.
Since stress causes aging and
it lowers mental performance,
you could look at
the adaptogenic herbs
like, rhodiola, ginseng,
holy basil, and ashwagandha.
Those give you more
resilience, which
makes you age less quickly.
So that's kind of a large
list of supplements.
But remember, get a minerals
101 type broad spectrum formula,
get your vitamin
D.A.K.E. Start there
and pick one or two of the list
you just learned about and say,
you know what, that
sounds interesting.
I want to try urolithin A.
I want to try spermidine.
Or you might be like
me and say, this
is the most important
thing in my life
because I think it's going to
double my lifespan, at which
point, maybe you go in
and do several of them
because you're going
to work into it
and that's all right, too.
I want you to choose the
result you're looking for
and take several
supplements at the same time
in order to get
the result. There
is no point in taking just one
supplement to see if it works.
That's like saying, I
wanted to make cookies
so I threw just the
chocolate chips in the oven.
And I baked them, I
didn't get cookies,
therefore, there's no cookies.
Take all the ingredients
you probably need
to get the results you want.
It works better that way.
And after that, you can
take away some supplements
to see what you don't need.
But doing them
one at a time, you
will not live long enough
to try every supplement
that there is one at a time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Now, one thing
about supplements is
they can interact with
medications if you're
on pharmaceuticals,
especially things
like antidepressants
or blood thinners.
Even vitamin D.A.K.E,
if you're on warfarin,
you don't want to take the
K part of vitamin D.A.K.E,
except you might want to change
your medication so you can have
vitamin K2 because you need it.
It's also important that you
go with trustworthy brands.
There are a lot of brands you
can find on Amazon and places
like that, that no one
knows about who they are,
generally very low
quality, and they
can have toxic metals in them.
I generally don't buy
my supplements on Amazon
today because there's so much
basically knockoff behavior
happening on there.
You really want to get
something that actually works.
There are also a
variety of brands who
will use vanity ingredients.
So they might tell
you how excited they
are that they have
some supplement,
but they put 1% of
what your body needs
in it so they can put in big
letters that it's in there.
So make sure you
check the label.
A lot of supplement
manufacturers
now have proprietary
blends of the things
I just talked about on here.
That's a bit of an
issue because if you
need to know how much you're
taking and you don't know,
they ought to be able to tell
you what's in it when you call
or maybe you want
a different brand.
If you're not sure
about a supplement,
reach out to the
support of a company
and see if they respond.
If they don't, who's
running the company?
Some supplements also contain
artificial ingredients.
They'll put things like
artificial colors, titanium
dioxide, artificial flavors.
You don't need
any of that stuff.
Supplements are supposed
to be good for you.
The form of your
supplements really matters.
B vitamins don't work for
probably half the population
because they're the cheap forms.
You want to have methylated or
activated forms of B vitamins
because everyone can use those.
You also want to do a little
bit of research online
to see if something
is fat soluble or not.
If it's fat soluble,
it's better with a meal
or maybe with coffee
that has butter in it.
Some supplements sit
better on a full stomach.
Fish oil and B vitamins, if you
take those on an empty stomach,
you're probably not going
to like what happens.
Also understand, I am 6'
4", 8.6% body fat and a male
and in an aggressive
anti-aging program.
If you took my
supplements, but you're
100-pound woman
who's 20 years old,
something bad is
going to happen.
So don't copy someone.
Understand what your needs
are, understand where you are,
and then you've learned enough
just in this one episode
to know you need
your vitamin D.A.K.E,
you need your minerals
101, but you probably
want to take some of
these other things.
At least once a year,
I'd love to see you
get regular blood work done.
You can get it done at home.
It's become very
affordable online, just
to make sure you're
on the right track.
Know if your levels
are high or low.
Don't be afraid to
switch things up.
So you can track how you're
feeling, what's working,
what isn't.
And if you just reach
for a bottle of vitamins
in the morning and you
just don't feel it,
then trust your intuition
and don't take it that day.
That's fine.
And it's a good idea to cycle
most of your supplements.
Take them some days, don't
take them other days.
That's all right.
Except your minerals
and D.A.K.E,
just take that all the time.
So there you go.
That is a ton.
You know the basic
supplements everybody needs,
and you know some super
powered supplements
that are extending lifespan in
animals and in humans, maybe
even you.
I'm Dave Asprey, and
this is "Biohacking."
[MUSIC PLAYING]